In Spark, the concept of lazy evaluation is used with transformation operations.
The transformation expressions do not get
evaluated until the external expressions are called.
Transformations are lazy in nature.
Meaning, when they call some operation in RDD,
it does not execute immediately.
Spark maintains a record of which operation is being called through DAG.
We can think Spark RDD as the data that we built up through a transformation.
Since transformations are lazy in nature,
so we can execute operation anytime by calling an action on data.
Hence in lazy evaluation,
data is not loaded until it is necessary.
Let's open up our Jupyter Notebook.
We're going to go through a simple word count example.
This is a great example because this uses all the examples of transformation like wide,
narrow transformations, and actions.
We'll revisit this code a couple more times.
First, what you need is a file path which is in our file, it's called shakespeare.text.
We'll be reading this text file,
and then we're going to transform into an RDD,
and then we're going to map through this.
Then we are going to apply a flatMap and it has
some lambda function which cleans up the text,
puts it to lowercase and it's split by a space because the words are spaced by a space.
Then we're going to do a map which is a word count,
and then we're going to reduceByKey on this one.
Then we're going to apply an action word which is a collect,
and then when we run this,
you will only see the word collect here which is
the action word because a DAG isn't generated until we operate an action.
Once you click on here,
you'll be able to see the blue boxes and red boxes here.
The blue boxes are noted as
the narrow transformation and then the red box
annotates the wide transformation which we'll take a look at in future.
If you click on these,
you will see an operation that you have applied on top of the RDD.
So FileScan, and there's a MapPartition which probably relates
to a bunch of map functions and flatMaps that we operated.
There's also the reduceByKey which actually
takes it to the next stage because this is stage 0.
The key takeaway is that even though you're applying
a bunch of transformations like map and flatMap,
they don't immediately show up on Spark UI until the action word is called,
and that is because the transformations are lazily evaluated.